this is a picture of a sunset in Mars
taken by NASA's Curiosity rover in 2013
Mars is a medical planet flooded with
high levels of UV radiation and
extremely dry
in fact Mars is considered to be too dry
for life as we know it
I'm an astrobiologist I try to
understand the origin of life on Earth
and the possibilities of finding life
elsewhere in the universe people
sometimes ask me how can you be an
astrobiologist if you don't have your
own spaceship well what I do is that I
study life in those environments on
earth
that most closely resemble other
interesting places in the universe all
life on Earth require water so in my
case I focus in the intimate
relationship between water and life in
order to understand we could find life
in a planet as high as Mars but since I
do not have the 2.5 billion dollar to
send my own robot to Mars
I study the most merchant place on earth
get a comma desert located in northern
Chile it is the oldest and driest desert
on earth to give you an idea how dry it
is consider here in Vancouver the rains
over 1,000 millimeters of rain every
year in that Akama there are places with
no reported rains in the last 400 years
how do I know this well because I was
born and raised at a camera
so I had a unique advantage when I
started studying this desert so let me
tell you there's a few fantastic
examples he has found on how life has
adapted to live with almost no water at
all one of my first finding was in the
entrance of a cave facing the Pacific
Ocean in this place will reported a new
type of microalgae that grew only on top
of the spiderwebs that covered the cave
entrance had you ever seen a spiderweb
early in the morning it's covered with
you so this might call didn't earn that
in order to carry photosynthesis in the
cause of the driest desert on earth they
could you see spider webs so here they
may access the water from the frogs the
regularly covered these areas in the
morning in another cave we'll find a
different type of marker algae this one
is able to use ocean mist as a source of
water and strikingly lives in the very
bottom of a cave so he has adapted to
live with less than 0.1% of the amount
of light the regular plants need this
type of finding suggests me that on Mars
we may find even for the synthetic life
inside case the by the way that that
mean now for almost 15 years this region
of jungle the score by NASA was sought
to be the driest place of this desert
but I knew that it was not how you ready
know the answer because I was born and
raised in this desert so I remember that
I usually see folks in Django so after
setting sensors in a number of places on
the map I remember never seen Fox or
clouds are reported for other sites
much drier than jungle with this one
Medea Elena's house being the truly
driest place on earth as dry as Mars and
amazingly just a 15-minute drive from
the small mining town where I was born
now in this search we were trying to
actually find the dry limit for life on
Earth a place so dry that nothing valley
was able to survive in it but even here
well hidden underground we found a
number of different microorganisms who
suggest me the
similarly dry places like Mars may be
inhabited we even have some Plamen are
the evidences that these microorganisms
may still be active in the desiccated
state like working mummies all around us
and that they mean they may be using UV
radiation as a source of energy if
confirmed this will have a huge impact
on our definition of life on how we look
for life elsewhere in the universe
due to its clear skies by 2020 60% so
the biggest telescope on earth will be
locating the Atacama and while everyone
else will be looking among the stars to
answer the question are we alone and
we'll be looking down to the ground
searching for the same answer in my own
back there thank you
[Applause]